[SMP-1201] Add air-gapped installation topic (#1437)
harness/developer-hub: docs/self-managed-enterprise-edition/self-managed-helm-based-install/install-in-an-air-gapped-environment.md

---
title: Install in an air-gapped environment
description: Learn how to install the Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition using Helm in an air-gapped environment. 
# sidebar_position: 6
---

> This document explains how to use Helm to install the Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition in an air-gapped environment and how to obtain and transfer Docker images to a private registry secure access. The steps include pulling Docker images, saving images as .tgz files, uploading to Google Cloud storage, downloading Helm charts, and pushing charts to your private repositories. This process ensures secure and seamless deployment of the Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition in restricted, offline environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic explains how to use Helm to install the Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition in an air-gapped environment and how to obtain and transfer Docker images to a private registry with secure access. The steps include pulling Docker images, saving images as .tgz files, uploading to Google Cloud storage, downloading Helm charts, and pushing charts to your private repositories. This process ensures secure and seamless deployment of the Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition in restricted, offline environments.
```

> Air-gapped environments are characterized by a lack of direct access to the internet, which provides an added layer of security for sensitive data and systems. This isolation poses unique challenges to deploy and update software applications, as standard methods of accessing resources, such as Docker images, are not possbile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Air-gapped environments are characterized by a lack of direct access to the internet, which provides an added layer of security for sensitive data and systems. This isolation poses unique challenges to deploy and update software applications, as standard methods of accessing resources, such as Docker images, are not possible.
```

- Latest version of Helm 

- Access to Helm charts or download locally

- Access to [the Harness airgap bundle on GCP](https://storage.googleapis.com/smp-airgap-bundles/harness-airgapped.tgz) 

- Kubernetes version 1.22+ (Harness recommends v1.23.x)

## Installation workflow

The flowchart below shows the air-gapped environment installation workflow steps.

![](./static/air-gapped-environment-workflow.png)

## Download required files

To begin your installation, download the following files:

Note: Different Harness releases are listed here including the hotfix, pick the relevant versions from https://storage.googleapis.com/smp-airgap-bundles

- Harness Docker images [harness-docker-images.txt](https://storage.googleapis.com/smp-airgap-bundles/harness-docker-images.txt)
- Harness air-gapped bundle [harness-airgapped.tgz](https://storage.googleapis.com/smp-airgap-bundles/harness-airgapped.tgz)
- Harness airgap images [harness-airgap-images.sh](https://storage.googleapis.com/smp-airgap-bundles/harness-airgap-images.sh)

## Save Docker images to your private registry

After you download the required files, you must save your Docker images to your private registry.

> **To save your Docker images**

Reviewer: Note sure you need this paragraph, just repeats the heading
